# cs207Projectsummer2020
Introduction:

As a rapid growth of automobile, more and more people preferred own car and make their life more comfortable and convenient. However, this growth of industries generates hurdles not only in human life but also adverse impact on environment. Out of all, available space for parking is the biggest issue for today’s world. Besides this, efficient car parking system play a decisive role in metropolitan traffic system, and its lack planning in system create traffic congestion, accidents and environmental pollution. Although efficient parking system can improve urban transportation and environment issues, besides the quality of life for individuals. As an alternative solution smart parking management is a smart and effective solution to overcome this problem. According to the research done by IBM, 30 percent of traffic is caused due to the driver searching for the secure car parking spot . This problem is also leading to burning more fuel due to traffic caused by the driver in searching for a proper place. 

In this project we work with the Arduino Uno kit and ARDUINO IDE. Arduino is an open source life. So, we have great support for the development environment with Arduino kit. To develop a simulated parking lot system that includes divided parking places, automatic lifting bar, indicator traffic lights and a display to show available parking spots this project uses Arduino uno, Servo motor, buttons, LCD display and RGB LED module and a couple of resistors.

Project Description:

The objective of this to achieve a smart solution for parking. And this will be done with the help of Arduino Kit. There are a total number of 7 parking spots available. If the parking spot is empty or the number of an empty spot is less than five then the system will display the “Welcome” message on LCD. If there is no spot available, then on LCD “Please come later” message will display. If the driver wants to enter the parking, then he/she must press the enter button. If the parking spot is available, then the barrier will open, and the LED status light will turn GREEN from RED. And with signal turning barrier will open and the counter on the LCD will be reduced by one. Similarly, If the driver wants to exit the parking spot then he/she must need to press the exit button, The LED signal will turn RED to GREEN and the counter on the display will be increased by one. One important thing that we must make sure that, if the parking is full then also if the driver presses the enter button, the barrier should not open. 
